the sexes are forced to battle because
females have a score to settle and it
all started about a billion years ago
when simple single-celled animals like
these Paramecium rocked the world
all the individuals are virtually
identical in shape and form but they
differ genetically only different
genetic types can come together and
reproduce
they fuse their membranes and exchange
some of their cell contents in this form
of simple sex they part after mating as
new individuals there can be dozens of
sexes in these animals highlighted as
different colors and there are no
baffles
but that all changed long ago
when one of them cheated a quirk of
evolution made one of the sexes smaller
and this turned out to be one of the
most significant events in life on earth
the smaller types were more mobile and
so monopolized the matings but the mates
of the little cheats could only produce
viable offspring if they grew fat to
compensate for their partner's lack of
provision now one sex was on a path to
obesity the other two athletic swimming
the presence of these oversexed midgets
drove all the other sexes to extinction
except for the huge fatty zone
the small sex those that cheated became
sperm and the large sex eggs gender as
we know it was born
you